Hey everyone, welcome back. My name is Ju and this is my friend Annie. We're glad to be with you all today and as a church community we've been journeying through the
through the book of Mark, where we've been learning about who Jesus is and how our relationship with him genuinely changes constantly.
Everything, everything.
I know I've absolutely loved going through Mark with my small group. We meet on Sunday nights at Whole Foods and it's been awesome. To learn more about who you are, visit our website at mark.com.
about who Jesus is as we read about the stories that he told about the kingdom of God or we learned about the miracles that he worked. And we're excited to continue that conversation.
Yeah, we're going to be talking and having a conversation about who Jesus is and how he is the God of the impossible. So today...
But today we're going to be in Mark 6, 11 through 12.
Drew, when you think of the word impossible,
what do you think I go to like sports kind of immediately I'm thinking about records I'm like oh that's gonna be impossible to beat I'm a big hockey fan so there's a a hockey player that's currently
It's currently trying to beat the goals record. And it seems so far to reach. I'm like, is this possible? Right.
I love it. There are so many things that we can look at in our own lives and in the world around us that seem impossible.
Impossible like climbing Mount Everest.
Yeah. We're doing those insane marathons that are like 100 miles long. I just had a friend that did that. Wow. So crazy. And today we're going to learn about two marathons.
Two of the miracles that Jesus worked while he was here on earth.
And in Mark 6, the disciples, his best friends, were all out in the Galilean villages,
They were talking about Jesus. They were preaching. They were doing miracles. And they finally came back to meet Jesus, and they were tired.
They were hungry. They hadn't eaten. They were what we like to say, "Hangry." Come on, I've been there. I get hangry sometimes when I'm working. I'm like, I forgot to eat.
I forgot to eat, and now I am so mad because I have not eaten, and I'm so tired. So that's how they felt coming back, and they were with Jesus, giving him an update, and Jesus...
And Jesus recognized how tired and how hungry they were. So he said, "Hey, let's go over here and let's take a break." Jesus is always inviting us to rest, which I love about him.
About him and he invites them over to this place of solitude so that they can be alone and they actually got on a boat.
to just be alone. But then since they had been out in all of the villages, all of these people recognized them. And they started surrounding them and all of a sudden they were like,
5,000 people there. And Jesus recognized that he needed to share with them who he was. And they needed a share.
"A shepherd is what the Bible says in the text." And so Jesus, he responds, "Now keep in mind, they still hadn't eaten and they were still tired." So as Jesus is saying,
This is teaching to over 5,000 people. All of a sudden, one of the disciples is like, listen, we're in this remote place and I am still hungry.
Hungry
tired let's go let's get out of here let's go get something to eat and Jesus is like oh
Why don't you give all of these people something that's not
to eat and he challenges them. When they're asking Jesus, like, how are we going to feed these people? Jesus puts the ball back in their court and they're like,
Like, there's no way we could ever feed 5,000 people. That's like half of our annual salary. We can't do that. Yeah.
But Jesus says,
Just try it.
Take the five loaves of bread that you have and here's two fish. Take it and see what happens. So pray and let's see what happens. And all of a sudden,
Jesus fed all of us.
Five,
5,000 people. It's one of the greatest miracles through feeding 5,000 people with just five loaves of bread and two fish. And he used 1,000.
Tired
and hungry disciples. He worked the impossible and invited people that were unqualified, not good enough to be part of it.
So right after that, Jesus goes and he takes a break again. He's like, I need to rest. I need to talk to God. So he goes up the mountain and takes a break and the disciples.
Disciples get back on the boat and Jesus comes back down from the mountain and he recognizes that they're out in the middle of the lake and the wind is howling and they're going against it.
So Jesus, he walked out on the water and they were afraid. When they saw Jesus, they were like, oh my gosh, is that a ghost? What's happening? I would be so sorry.
Be so scared if that was happening. If I was out in the middle of a lake going against the wind and I saw a man coming towards me. Yeah.
But then Jesus, when he got in the boat, the waters calmed. And the scripture says that their hearts had hardened because they didn't recognize the mirror.
The miracle that God worked for.
earlier and I think that's such an easy place to
For us to find ourselves
in the space of God working a miracle and we don't even recognize what He's done. They were invited to participate in doing the impossible.
And God invites us to do the impossible with him, but sometimes we miss out on that.
Yeah. So, like, how do we not...
miss out on the miracle that God's working around us. - I love this because
i think a lot of the times we we think of miracles and we think like massive miracles like the like the feeding of the five thousand which god is more than able and capable.
capable of doing. But then also I think of miracles, these little miracles that can happen day to day in our lives. And I think that
And it could break down to just, yes, he fed 5,000, but how do we feed people with like encouragement in a day-to-day that we see that someone that's hurting, that we can feed them some truth and encouragement?
Ruth and encouragement from the Word of God. Maybe it actually is feeding someone like a neighbor that we've known that's going through a hard time financially, but we can literally just Uber some food for them.
them and like bless them with that and say, Hey, Jesus loves you. So even from a feeding from a massive perspective, even do we see the miracles that happen just in our day to day?
today lies. But I think there is a couple of things that might be roadblocks or things that we're not aware of. And yes, it needs to be obedience. And yes, the disciples, yes.
Plus, yes, they were tired. Yes, they wore out. But they kept like, yo, Jesus, how this is going to work out? You don't even need this little food. But yeah.
They were obedient to what he wanted to do.
And I think sometimes our obedience though can be hindered by us not being aware because there's so much noise in our life. Like what things are influencing us.
influencing you? What things in your life are you letting direct you? And sometimes that could be the chaotic work week. Sometimes that could be social media or
Or it could be the news and that's literally influencing you and how you live through your
life but I think is one it's like can we take the noise away so we can hear what he's trying to do day to day moment to moment and live on mission
mission in 2020.
Our lives that's so good there's so much noise that surrounds us every day between our phone notifications or even traffic
traffic on the street or being at home and not being able to get away and be quiet, that it can distract us from being obedient and knowing how to follow God or listen to the voice of God.
the voice of God. I know for me this is kind of a small example but guys in the last month I spent so much time on TikTok and the other day I I
I actually felt convicted of like, how could I really ever forgive?
The voice of God in my day-to-day life when all my free time is spent on TikTok or Instagram or all these outlets that would distract me.
Yeah, that's so good. And sometimes when I think of like how God can do impossible things, maybe it's not what we think it's impossible, but maybe
But maybe it's the people in our community around that think it is impossible. So maybe God is asking you to step in and be a blessing of encouragement like we're talking about or being present.
present in their life because of what they deem is impossible. How many times are we selfish and we just are focused on ourselves when we're asking the Lord, "Hey, we want to get rid of the noise so you can make us
It's aware and discerning of what is going around us, where people feel like hopeless or, hey, this is impossible. I can't do this and can't continue. So we...
Oh, with that, as we simply just... I don't
Uh, uh, kind of stated out, like a practical thing for us to do is get alone, get rid of the noise. And then secondly, it's then asking Lord, like, where,
Where do you want me to be? Where can I live out mission of not only loving you, but loving those around you in whatever, like whatever different way, maybe.
Maybe it's a co-worker.
and and they've been going through a hard time in their marriage and they just need someone to be there to be a good listener and say hey i'm gonna pray for you and they're gonna see that because you believe in Jesus
And Jesus and what he's doing in your life. Yeah.
Maybe for you guys, you have a bad relationship with a son or a daughter. And the Lord's asking you, "Hey, you take the first step.
Step. You take the first step and you reach out.
uh it could be in school and you could feel like hey this one school was so out of reach you know and and maybe you're scared or timid to go after it but the lord's like hey just be obedient see what happens and like.
And like go after a whole bunch, but don't be afraid. Don't just, uh, cower down like, Hey, go for it. Like trust me. And we'll see what happens or plays out. Yeah. I love.
We loved a couple weeks ago in Staff Huddle. We were talking about our prayer and fasting that we were doing as a church. And Pastor Doug challenged us with the idea, if you do not want to be the
to be the person where God says you have not because you ask not. And I think sometimes we don't get alone enough to ask God to do the
the impossible and I think we serve an impossible God we see that and who Jesus is in Mark 6 and that's what we want to do today
That's good. Let's pray and hope you guys are encouraged. I mean, I think we have an amazing things that I know I'm challenged by just to take in my day today, in my marriage, in my relationships.
And we hope that you guys are encouraged as well. So I'm going to pray for us as we close out. Lord, just thank you for your word. Thank you for this time that we've
time that we can spend just dialoguing and talking about the miracles that we've seen you do, that you're more than able, that you're more than capable of doing even now in this time, whether it's big
It's big or small. I just pray for a conviction. I pray for discernment of what things are in the way of just hearing your voice in the day to day that we can see these.
See these little miracles take place in our life.
Will you give us a confidence and assurance in you, not just by our own flesh or what we feel passionate about, but what you have literally drawn us to, whether that's a person
person, a place, or a thing, Lord, that we can be a part of, that we can speak encouragement, speak your truth, your word, and share your joy and your love.
And whatever avenue, what anything that we're in, God. So we love you in your name. Amen.
Amen.